1- What is container?
ans: A way to package application with all the necessary dependencies and configuration. It makes development and deployment easy.

2- where do container live?
ans- containers live in container repository. Many companies have their own private repository where they host their containers. 
     Dockerhub is a public repository for containers.


3- what is the differnece between normal development and with Docker
ans- if docker is not there then all the services are installed in OS which can lead to dependency mismatch

4 - difference between docker image and container
ans: image is application with dependencies and configurations and container
     is running image


5 - what is the difference between docker and virtual machine?
ans: OS has two layers one is kernel and applications. kernel layers communicates
     with hardware and applications layer run on kernel layer. Docker and virtual
     machine both are virtualization tools but docker has the application and uses
     the kernel of the host whereas virtual machine has its own application and 
     kernel. That is the reason size of docker image is much smaller.
     VM of any OS can run on any OS of host but docker cannot. docker window application 
     migh not be compatible with linux.

docker basic commands
1) docker pull image_name
2) docker images: for listing all the images
3) docker run image_name: to run the image
4) docker ps: for lisitng running container
5) docker ps -a: for listing running and not running containers. suppose you stop a container today and want to start its
                 tomorrow. for that you need to run command: docker start container_id. Now if you type docker ps. No container
                 will be shown. So to fetch the container_id you can use docker ps -a.

Container port vs host port
- If we just run the command: docker run redis and the container is there on 6379 port. but this redis is not accessible ans
  we have not provided any binding for container port and the host port. To make it accessible we neep to give a binding.
  
- docker run -p 6000:6379: first port is host port and second is the container port
- we can start the container in detached mode using
  docker run - p 6000:6379 -d

- docker exec -it container_id /bin/bash: for going inside the terminal
